# CS370
## Homework for Chapter 1

### Question 1

- Process Management
    + Forking a process.
    + Creating a channel for interprocess communication.
    + Changing priority of a process.
- Memory Management
    + Requesting memory.
    + Releasing memory.
    + Shring memory between processes.
- I/O Management
    + Reading/Writing data from/to an IO device.
    + Opening and closing an IO device.
    + Providing exclusive access to appropiate devices (e.g. Webcam)
- Networking
    + Establishing and closing a connection to a remote system.
    + Listening for connections from a remote system.
    + Sending and receiving messages to and from a remote system.

### Question 2

System calls are a lower level than libraray calls. They are usually implemented directly on the kernel and handled by hte kernel. A layer above system calls are library calls. Library calls use system calls to complete their task.

Example:

`fork()` is a system call that creates a copy of a process.
An API such as JDK can interally use `fork()` to allow the developer writing a program on the JDK to spawn a new thread.

### Question 5

No, they should not be allowed to do this. There are many reasons that allowing them to do this is a bad idea but I will use three examples of why it would be a terrible mess up.

#### Situation 1

SSL/TLS (we should honestly just start calling it TLS at this point) use system time to check if a certificate is valid. Allowing any application to change time would create a great security vulnurability as it would hinder the system's ability to check for a valid certificate.

#### Situation 2

Even though operating systems aren't based off the batch model, we still use batch operations to do some important work on our devices. For example an institution could use it for their IDS and IPSes. Preventing the institution finding any IDS and IPSes.

#### Situation 3

The last example is that a program like this on a server could completely devistate the integrity of databases by just switching the time to 0 and back to what it is supposed to be every 5 seconds. It would completely ruin any sort of logs/database entries.

### Question 7

#### Memory Management

Applications shouldn't be able to write anywhere in the memory they want. Memory should be allocated with reference to the pid of the application requesting it. For example, memory blocks 1-4 are for app with PID 1000 and memory blocks 5-8 are for the app with PID 1001.

If PID 1000 requests to write something to memory, it should go through an abstraction level of the operating system and the OS should determine if 1000 has access to that specific memory block.

So if PID 1000 tries to write 'a' into memory block 7 it should be met with a security exception.

#### File System Management

File system management is a little different. In this case, since file systems usually carry persistant data (unless we're talking about SWAP or ram disks), they shouldn't associate each file with a PID because the PID of a program is volatile. The OS should associate each file with a user. Only that user and people "above" that user should be able to access that file.

Nowadays this privilage system associates a file with a user and a group for simpler system management for system adminstrators.

### Question 8

These `stubs` provide an extra layer of abstraction to these system. This extra layer of abstraction allows programs be written once and compiled in different operating systems which have different names/arguments for the syscalls. 

For example, [this](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kill_(command)) link demonstrates a clear difference between the syscall for kill in different operating systems.

When using a stub, the compiler can decide for which system it is compiling this code for and provide the correct binary for each operating system.

