# CS370
## Homework for Chapter 3

### Question 1

In inferno-os, applications use the Styx protocol to communicate with the file servers. These file servers are served by the namespaces (Which is shown in figure 3-2 as `Name space Management`).

The styx protocol is what makes inferno-os very strong in distributed computing.

### Question 2

Software interrupts are used to create subroutine calls. This is not neccessary due to the method inferno has implemented it's kernel using the Styx protocol.

There is no difference between the native version and the hosted version in a sense that in both cases the code is run in a virtual machine. Another example of this is Java. There are processors that handle java bytecode which basically makes it so that your code can run both natively and hosted with the same syscalls. Their syscalls are built in to the VM.


### Question 4

Initially eve is used as the "owner" of all the resources and built-in services. The inital user for eve is set to the default "inferno" until we know who we are. This user is overriden when a user logs in. This is also overriden if inferno can get information from the host. The way Inferno was planned was that basically the person sitting behind the machine "owns" the machine. They're sole owner of that machine. It was meant to be an actual _personal_ computer rather than a multi user system.

The difference between this and the superuser is that there is just simply one user and that is always the super user. Super user implies that there are different users with different permissions. However in inferno anyone sitting behind the computer is the superuser/eve.


### Question 5

As mentioned in the Origins of Inferno, they thought that "the new computing world was no longer a central system with many users connected ..." So they assumed that the system will run with one user and they made that user the "superuser" or simply the user who controlled everything.

In my opinion this was/is a terrible move.

### Question 7

Honestly I had no idea about this, but I think [this](http://yarchive.net/comp/linux/fp_state_save.html) is a really good source.

The fp subsytem needs to be saved so the VM can restore it upon context switching with different programs. Without this, the kernel would be "non-stable".
