# CS370
## Homework for Chapter 5

### Question 1

It would take a bit longer than nT. Round robin scheduling is great, however there is a cost of overhead when using it. Loading and saving the registers takes time so the CPU needs to spend an amount of clock time to do that. Although it is worth noting that that overhead is a good comprimise.

### Question 3

In priority scheduling the time slots are not evenly distributed. EDF scheduling is a sort of priority scheduling. In this case the process `a` has a higher priority than the rest of the tasks due to its earlier deadline. `a` in EDF has a 60% CPU share/time. As stated earlier the reason for this is that the scheduler prefers this process over the others.

### Question 4

- Disabling interrupts: A terrible idea to let the user use this for mutex. The reason being is that a user process can effectively take the CPU hostage and not let other programs use it. This method should in my opinion be avoided as much as possible, even by system processes.
- Test and set instructions: Allowing users to use this is okay in modern day computing. However it does potentially have disasterous outcomes. For exmaple, it could keep the CPU hostage because it uses something called `busy waiting`. This shouldn't be an issue with modern day CPUs that are multithread and multicore though. In conclusion I think this should only be given to "trusted" user applications rather than just let any application use it.
- Semaphores: This is the best method to create mutex locks. It does not imploy `busy waiting` such as test and set. It also does not manipulate system interruptions. Basically, everyone should be allowed to use this.

### Question 5

Without interrupts, the process that is blocking will not be preempted. This basically makes it take 100% of the computational power and not let any other process access the critical section because the other process simply can not execute any of its instructions.

If one process holds the metaphorical microphone and does not give a chance for the other to speak at all, the other will never be heard.

### Question 6

Let's give each task a name:

```
A - 100
B - 30
C - 20
D - 240
E - 120
```
- First-come, first served:
	- A 100 s
	- B 30 s
	- C 20 s
	- D 240 s
	- E 120 s
	- Average turnaround time: `(100 + (100 + 30) + (100 + 30 + 20) + (100 + 30 + 20 + 240) + (100 + 30 + 20 + 240 + 120)) / 5 = 256 s`
- Shortest Job First:
	- C 20 s
	- B 30 s
	- A 100 s
	- E 120 s
	- D 240 s
	- Average turnaround time: `(20 + (20 + 30) + (20 + 30 + 100) + (20 + 30 + 100 + 120) + (20 + 30 + 100 + 120 + 240)) / 5 = 200 s`

### Quesiton 9

- Time slice 0:
	- A: 4
	- B: 3
	- C: 2
- Time slice 1: A ran
	- A: 3 (2)
	- B: 3 (1)
	- C: 2
- Time slice 2: B ran
	- A: 3
	- B: 2 (2)
	- C: 2 (1)
- Time slice 3: A ran
	- A: 2 (3)
	- B: 2 (2)
	- C: 2 (1)
- Time slice 4: C ran
	- A: 2 (2)
	- B: 2 (1)
	- C: 1
- Time slice 5: B ran
	- A: 2
	- B: 1 (2)
	- C: 1 (1)
- Time slice 6: A ran
	- A: 1 (3)
	- B: 1 (2)
	- C: 1 (1)

It takes 6 slices for them to drop back to 1.

### Question 15

Yes ther eis a chance. If we pick 0.9 for p and 0.9 for alpha, and assuming the process always blocks. The process will keep getting higher and higher priority each round. Effectively making it control 100% of the CPU without giving any chance for other processes to run.

